Oh, we're live. Hey, Michael. It's exciting to do another Python Bytes with you.
As always.
Welcome, everybody. Thanks for showing up. Let's kick it off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 443, recorded August 4th, 2025. And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And you can reach us on the socials on Blue Sky or Mastodon.
Check out the show notes or the website, pythonbytes.fm, to find all those links.
And if you'd like to watch us live, you can check out pythonbytes.fm/live.
And it's usually Mondays at 10 a.m. Pacific time.
But you can go there to link to the YouTube channel to get all the older episodes as well.
and this episode we have ours is sponsored by you guys by the offerings that both Michael and I have and you're supporting us through that really helps us going to getting courses, buying books that's pretty much it also Patreon so thanks Patreon people anyway let's kick it off
what you got Michael?
I have something sent in from Owen Lamont.
And so, Owen, thank you for sending this in.
I believe we've talked about Markdown formatting stuff before, but I want to look at this one because it's got some rough vibes.
R-U-F-F, not R-O-U-G-H.
Rough vibes in that it's a formatter written in Rust, seems insanely fast.
And even though it's a general purpose thing and it's written in Rust, it has special love for the Python people.
So there's a PyPI wrapper, basically a wheel that wraps up the commands going to it.
So you can pip install it, uv pip install it, more importantly uv tool install.
It also has a pre-commit hook and pyproject.toml support.
It's pretty neat, right?
Yeah.
I just ran it on a project I'm working on.
And apparently-- what did it say?
How many errors?
14.
14 errors I found in my-- and it will fix them in the similar way if you do a --fix, I believe.
So that's pretty cool.
High performance markdown formatter.
So you can install it in lots of ways, but I would just uv tool install it.
It has 54 linting rules, which are apparently common markdown issues.
Like if I have a heading, there should be a line break between the heading and the content of that section.
You can fix most of them with --fix, like I said, which is beautiful.
No dependencies, single binary.
Highly configurable, which is great because a lot of the warnings I get when I run it are this line length of 102 exceeds the 80 character limit.
I don't know, when do people, when do we move on from the 80 character limit in things, Python and other?
I have a 4K monitor, 32 inch 4K monitor.
If I put stuff in 80 columns, it's like on the left.
And the 80 columns is like, well, that's the default size of a terminal.
Okay, is that where most of our markdown is done?
Probably not, but I don't know.
I'd say make it long and let it wrap.
The reason I don't like that rule particularly for Markdown is I use Typeora, which I love.
But Typeora, it keeps a little more of the formatting visually there.
So even if I was to do the Markdown and render it to a web page or to a PDF, the line breaks would disappear because you have to have two line breaks, right?
Like a blank line.
But in Typeora, while you're editing it, you see them.
And so you would see chunks.
So if I make my editor wider, it stops going.
If I make it skinnier, though, then it has weird half line breaks because it's wrapping the 80 lines to 60, and then there's 20 more.
It's just-- I hate that rule.
So why am I ranting so much?
Well, because I rant, apparently.
But it's also super configurable.
So you can go to a TML file down here.
once you find it in here it gives us a bunch of examples I think about the top here there and you can go in here and gives you examples like I can say disable rule MD 0 13 or in my case yes that's the one of course it's 13 it's unlucky but you can also configure the rules like say rule 7 is about indentation how many characters how many spaces do you want to indent by or different things right don't apply the line length considerations to code blocks or tables but override the line length to be 100 again I'm turning that off but still I guess I could set it to infinity that would be fine all right but
isn't this cool yeah it is really cool I want to jump on the line like bandwagon a little bit here though. Let's do it.
I agree. I'm glad this is configurable because in writing a book or something or a tutorial, I'm going to have long paragraphs and I'd rather have those just wrap and I don't want to limit my line length. So I would turn that off if I'm writing long form stuff.
Yeah, I'm thinking of my blog posts
and things like that, right?
Yeah. But for the markdown in a project, even if it's a documentation project, in maybe, I guess.
I can see it for like readmes or something or things that are changing a lot because you're doing diffs more.
You do have to be aware of the diffs.
But I think diff tools deal with word wrap fine now.
So anyway, I don't know.
Yeah, that's a fair issue.
Fair point.
But if you got long form writing,
it doesn't make sense.
Yeah, it doesn't make sense at all.
That's weird.
It's not like in Word.
Google Docs, like, where do you want to break your lines?
Like, no, I want it to just go across the page.
Can we just let me write?
Yeah.
But it's super cool.
You can, like I said, uv tool install it.
It even has instructions for uv.
Or you can use uv tool run.
And so you could run it without even actually installing it just to test out how it might go.
Yeah.
So do you know what the biggest mistake is you usually make for Markdown?
I haven't done enough messing with it yet.
but I can report back to you.
Okay.
I haven't even used the tool yet, but I'm looking forward to trying it because the thing that always trips me up is a space before unordered list.
So if you write a sentence with a colon and then you do a new line and then you start like do the asterisk or dash or something like that and start a list, some tools will automatically understand that you intended it to be a list, and some of them don't, and you just get a bunch of asterisks in a paragraph.
So, yeah, I need something to fix that for me.
Definitely.
All right.
On to the next topic.
I want to talk about coverage because Ned Batchelder released...
This is a blog post from the end of July, July 24th.
Coverage 7.10.0 with Patch.
So we're actually up to 7.10.2 now, but it's the patch that's like the super cool news.
And I just read about this, and I am like really excited about it.
So one of the things, it adds three things.
So if we go to the change log, it's adding patch subprocess, patch execv, and patch exit or underscore exit or something.
And I'll do the weird ones first.
I don't really see execv around, but the issue with execv and exit is that that's a way, like something happens and your stuff gets torn down before coverage has a chance to write its stuff.
It just like processes stop.
And that's not cool.
But with this, you can fix that.
And there have been workarounds for these other things.
and so that's not really the big news the big news i think is subprocess because there were ways to if you have if you're trying to run coverage on a project that has subprocesses you have to have some way to like cover all of those processes and then combine them later and there were ways to deal with it but it was a little clunky now um we've got uh we've got a way to do it right built in you just say patch equals subprocess and coverage does it for you.
How cool is that?
And multiprocessing.
It'll count multiprocessing execution for coverage.
Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ned.
So I'm really excited about this.
It's pretty cool.
Anyway, that's it really.
Awesome.
Yeah, that's a really good one.
Short and sweet.
This one comes to us from Pat Decker, I believe.
I hope I'm remembering that right because I forgot to write it down so it's when I'll send it in I apologize I'm pretty sure it's Pat sent this over and it's AIO Bodo 3 so Bodo 3 is the Python package to talk to things like s3 and other stuff in Amazon okay and AWS don't get me started on Bodo 3 it's a bit of a insane package the way it's created but what I want to about is AIO Boto3 which is a wrapper on top of Boto3 resources that leverages the AIO BotoCore async backend so what's going on from here it's a package by Terry Kane and she created I think to basically make higher level operations which you would use from the Boto3 level instead of the Boto core which is more low-level detailed interaction with AWS but there was a async low-level one but not an async high-level one and so now there's an async high-level and so for example do you want to work with s3 contents asynchronously well here you go so you can do things like create a session and then say async with go to a resource for s3 then await getting a bucket and and then loop over asynchronously with an async for across all the items in that bucket.
So if you want to do a bunch of S3 type of work or DynamoDB or Kinesis, whatever, then you want to do that asynchronously, well, here you go.
Also, she has an example of working with a DynamoDB table and reading and writing objects into it, which is pretty sweet.
What's Kinesis?
What is Kinesis?
Good question.
That's an AWS thing?
Yeah.
Looking that up.
Kinesis.
That's not how you spell it, but luckily.
I just thought it was keyboard.
It's a family of services provided by AWS for processing and analyzing real-time streaming data at a large scale.
I'm glad you asked because this is what I've been working for a long time around.
Okay.
Sorry.
Oh, apparently like data streaming, data lake, data processing, analytics.
Okay.
Got it.
Cool.
That's it.
That's all I got to say about it.
But if you're basically, if you're using Boto3 and you want to do async, AIO Boto3.
All right.
Well, I, sorry for the distraction, but I wanted to, yeah, anyway.
I have a Kinesis keyboard.
That's why I'm like, what?
Yes, you do, don't you?
Yeah.
Tell people what it looked like.
Put one up on the screen.
Yeah, I was trying to look for one.
Kinesis keyboard.
Images.
Oh, here we go.
Did you find one?
No.
They are wild.
I had one for a while.
I'm like, I'm not sure I can do this.
Oh, I love it.
So I just did the image search.
But yeah, they're split like this.
And it's in there.
And also your keys are in little divots.
Yeah.
Maybe if I could describe it for people, Ryan.
Imagine you took an orange.
You cut the orange in half.
You took out the orange fleshy bit.
And you lined the inside of the orange peel with keys.
That's what typing on is like.
You type into these round holes.
Okay.
But I would say coconuts maybe because it's bigger.
Or like a coconut where you just work with the lower third and the top third.
yeah but one of the things that's cool about these is they're in uh do you remember the men in black
movie oh yeah yeah well i did till they flashed me but you know well the men in black movie had um
if you the office scene in the first first uh one um everybody's weren't using kinesis it's pretty cool were they okay how awesome yeah all right um i i'm gonna i wasn't gonna talk about keyboards but uh what am i talking about i want to talk about you might not need a python class by adam grant so i um i think we've probably talked about this before but it's worth reminding people because there's a lot of people that come in to python from other languages and uh classes are used a lot in other languages and you don't really have to use them here so much so i'm just going to of run through some of the options.
One is for simple data containers, think about named tuples, which are great, or data classes.
Actually, I'd probably data class first, and then if it's not quite right, named tuple.
But here's an example of somebody doing a custom class with point.
And also, the intending is wrong here, Adam, but oh well.
Anyway, examples of how to use that with a named tuple, or just a data class.
So it works pretty good.
You don't usually have to create your own classes.
All right.
I don't really see that very much.
Also, if you're creating a class with a static variable, there's a really good chance that should just be a module level variable.
Modules themselves often can behave in the same way that people do classes.
Like I want to group the functions together and have some shared data.
That's a module.
Exactly.
Yeah, so that's one thing that's not in this, but one of the things I've taught people for a long time is if you think you need a singleton pattern in Python, it's just a module.
Just do a module.
Yeah, 100%.
And if you're afraid of global data in Python, it's not really global.
It's just global to the, yes, it's accessible to anything, but it's just module global.
It's not a big deal.
Anyway, examples with points.
but there's some surprising stuff in here.
Stateless utility functions just use functions.
And here's a, yeah, this is somebody that must have came from.
If everything's a static, like you said, if everything's a static method, then it doesn't need to be there.
Just make it a function.
Grouping constants also use modules.
Well, there's also enums that you can do, but anyway, yeah, if you're just having some constants and you're trying to group them together, just put them in a module.
For some reason, this freaks people out sometimes.
And I think it's just the people that are new to Python.
Yeah, I think, I mean, I came from C#,
which had a lot of class, very much, like everything had to be in a class at the time
that I was doing it, like literally everything.
So I was very much in that space, but I've moved on.
Also, on the constants, I agree.
But maybe throw in a typing final of type.
So they've got like a host and a port.
you could have a typing dot final bracket stir and a typing dot final bracket int oh yeah yeah so yeah like don't edit this don't edit it yeah unless you're meant to but the way they say
the word constant that probably means not so much changing yeah but also having it in a class and
it stopped people from changing it either no at least you get a warning yeah tells you you're bad
if you want to be bad.
Managing state with simple structures, use dictionaries or lists, definitely.
A lot of this, the gist is, Python has a lot of built-in stuff that you can just learn how to use dictionaries and lists well.
It'll take care of a lot of stuff.
This one is surprising to me.
Simple one-off operations, use lambdas or comprehensions.
I mean, sure, the example works for a lambda and comprehension, but also you could just use a function.
If you're going to grab a Lambda, you could just write a function.
But yeah, Lambdas are great.
Avoiding complexity, use built-in libraries.
Don't reinvent the wheel.
There's probably something that is an example with config parser or JSON.
They usually, they can do a lot.
Yeah.
And then I'm glad we tie into your first topic.
When you actually need a class.
Well, there's a bulleted list, but they didn't do a new line.
So I'm pretty sure it was a markdown that didn't get converted correctly.
Anyway.
And I'd like to add, what are my additions?
If you think you need a class, you probably don't.
If you really do think you do, ask a friend because friends don't let friends create extraneous classes in Python.
And then if you think you're the exception, it probably isn't an exception.
And then finally, I'd like to say, if you think you need data classes, but data classes aren't quite padding it for you, check out Adders.
Adders is still around and Adders is awesome.
Yeah.
Or Pydantic.
Yeah, or Pydantic.
The when you actually need a class?
Yeah, I agree with this.
I like it.
Yeah.
Well, so what did he say?
He said, if you need to encapsulate state or behavior, yes, but also you could use a data class or a module.
Yeah.
If your objects have clear behavior method, behavior slash methods associated with their data and you're modeling complex hierarchical structures.
Yeah, I'm thinking the middle one.
If you have data that is tied to an instance of the class, you need to have multiple ones of those and the methods operate on that particular data.
I mean, that's when you need it, right?
Not for all the other jumps and hoops people used to use it for.
And as far as inheritance hierarchies go, since I've been using Python, I have multiple times created class hierarchies and then regretted it.
I don't think I have any that were legitimate reasons to use a class hierarchy.
But also, after using Python so much, I don't recreate class hierarchies in C++ much anymore either because I like using containment instead of inheritance, I think is a cleaner model.
So anyway.
Yeah, that's composition over inheritance indeed.
That's it.
Goes a long way.
All right.
Those are our topics.
Do you have any extras?
I have at least one extra.
Let's see what I can do about that.
So this Thursday, as in three days from now, 8 o'clock Pacific time, I will be doing a live webcast with Will Vincent from PyJar.
Yeah.
So we're talking about basically uv, what is uv, all the way that you can apply to your projects.
Should be a lot of fun.
I'm really looking forward to it.
I wasn't entirely sure what we were going to cover.
Will and I talked about it today.
We have a bunch of great ideas.
Cool.
So if you want to see uv in action, we talked about that post from Armin Roenaker a few months ago or whatever.
Why are you not using UV?
If you're not, why?
A lot of people are like, what's UV?
or it's too hard to move from or it doesn't, whatever.
We'll kind of address all that kind of stuff.
Plus, maybe some fun Docker things, some performance things, all over the place.
Awesome.
Yep.
I have a couple extras.
All right.
So first off, this was sent to us by listener John Hagen.
The PyPI blog has an incident report about a phishing attack.
So apparently there was some targeted phishing emails.
There were some, and I didn't read this that closely, but it's creepy because it was a phishing attack that involved a fake PyPI that had a phishing domain that was in the middle.
So if somebody clicked on the link, it all behaved just like PyPI, but there was somebody in the middle capturing stuff.
That's really creepy.
What was it?
It involved the fact that in some fonts, I and J look identical.
So it was a pypj.org domain.
Yikes.
Anyway, I just wanted to have people aware of that.
It was apparently found and fixed relatively quickly.
There were, I guess, four user accounts successfully phished.
They're either disabled.
So what is the, right, there's some recommendations, takeaways, calls to action.
If you have a dormant PyPI account, so if you have a PyPI account you're not really using, consider removing it.
You can always create another one if you need to later.
if you have an older PipeEI account and you're not using 2FA yet please sign up for that even if you only pop in once a year make it more secure be good and use web often via browser hardware security or hardware security keys wow I don't even know it is that just web authentication I don't know I think it's like YubiKey type stuff
okay do it though so i don't know that one i'm all about the 2fa and i'm all about the 45 character password but i'm not doing what about it 45 characters wow or whatever like i've i'm so frustrated there's so many websites out there that you'll you'll set like i used to have a default i think it maybe was 36 and one password for randomly generating a password i'm like that should be that should pretty much stop it you know what i mean right um and god forbid there's like a moment or two where you've got to type it in um like for example on windows if you get a new system you got to log into your microsoft account before you get into the system the first boot or something like oh god i got to type it so you don't want it to be like come up you know paragraph but so many websites go no your characters have to be your your passwords have to be less than 16 characters or less than 12 characters i think my bank would limit it to like less than 10 i'm like my bank what is wrong with you people like if anybody should accept that you know a big password but it's a tech support like well somebody's going to say they're locked out of their account because somebody put a long password and they can't type it in or you know what gives me crappy reasons oh
What gets me is when people, like passwords get, when they exclude common characters like colon or quote mark, or I'm like, really, your system is not able to handle colons in a password?
That's just like insane.
Anyway.
Yeah, I agree.
But anyway.
Okay, so phishing attack.
I've got a couple other quick extras.
I do have some, I'm not dedicated to the weekly testing code, but lately it's been weekly.
So testing code, I got a couple, had an interview with Adam Johnson that was two topics.
We split it into two episodes.
Both are now available.
We had pytest Django that we talked about.
And then we talked about Git tips for testing.
And the top, especially some of the stuff on the get diff, get stash, and get bisect sections are pretty interesting.
So some good stuff there.
Yeah, very nice.
And those are my extras.
All right.
Do you have a joke?
I do.
But this joke, you know how they say jokes are not funny if you've got to explain them.
I'm going to explain this anyway.
But not the joke itself.
I'm going to explain the foundational information people need to know.
So a lot of times people say these days, Brian, they say, Visual Studio, I'm using, like, what editor do you use?
Oh, I use Visual Studio.
They're not using Visual Studio.
They're using something called Visual Studio Code or VS Code, right?
Yeah.
There is, there has been since the 90s, an editor called Visual Studio.
It is not Visual Studio Code.
It is a beast of a beast.
It's like a five gig download.
It manages Azure.
It does database.
It does team foundation server.
It does like all this stuff.
It's like a really heavyweight editor.
And VS Code was basically created to make a lightweight little editor that is not Visual Studio proper, right?
Yeah.
All right.
So I got to just set that up because I know a lot of people, especially younger folks, Visual Studio is Visual Studio Code.
But now, are you ready for the joke?
Yeah.
All right, let's do it.
So there's a nurse talking to a guy.
He says, do you have any history of mental illness in your family?
The guy looks over as well.
My brother uses Visual Studio 2022 as a default text editor.
Yeah, that's good.
It's pretty good, right?
Pretty good.
Because that thing's big and it's slow to start and it's like ridiculous.
Default text file editor.
Yeah, that's the joke.
That's what I got you.
So I haven't had to use Visual Studio for a while, but we did use to.
I was using it for compiling stuff.
And I can't remember what the shortcode was for compiling.
It was like F7 or F11 or F2.
One of the F keys was just to compile.
And so whenever anybody asks me, do you use Visual Studio?
I'm like, just as a really big thing to hit F7 with or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and it's true.
I would edit in like way back in the day.
It was before Visual Studio or VS Code.
So I was probably editing in like Vim or Sublime or something like that.
And then I'd have Visual Studio off to the side.
and I would just like go over to it and hit the key to compile and then go back to my day.
But yeah, it's what it is.
This is a good one.
I like it.
I do too.
I used to use Visual Studio and I enjoyed it.
I thought it did cool stuff.
But as a default text editor for just a simple file,
that is not what it was for.
Yeah, I had people like composing their email in Visual Studio.
Oh my gosh.
Really?
This is what you know?
Okay.
All right.
Fair?
Well, I mean, they probably do have a history of mental illness then.
I think so.
Then they open up Outlook and send it, and you know for sure there's something going on there.
Yeah, Outlook.
Exactly.
The only thing on my desktop that if I hit Control-F, it doesn't find stuff.
It forwards an email.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, excellent episode again.
Thanks, Michael.
Thanks, everybody, for listening.
You bet.
See you later.
Bye, everyone.
Bye.